Who ends up with the assets of Warner Bros. Discovery Inc., the owner of one of Hollywood’s largest and most venerable film studios, is likely to impact the entertainment industry for decades to come. On Dec. 5, the company announced that Netflix Inc., the world’s dominant streaming platform, had agreed to purchase its streaming and studio assets in a $82.7 billion deal, including debt. Three days later, Paramount Skydance Corp. launched a hostile takeover bid for all of Warner Bros. The offer values the company at $108.4 billion in total. Either deal would require regulatory approval.

Streaming has changed the way movies and TV shows are distributed, putting pressure on legacy media companies by cutting into revenue from cable subscriptions and advertising as well as movie ticket sales. In a bid for a bigger share of the streaming economy, David Zaslav engineered a 2022 merger between Warner and Discovery Inc., the producer of low-cost unscripted programming that he ran.

However, the stock flagged. In June of this year, Warner Bros. announced a plan to split into two businesses, one focused on cable TV, the other on streaming and studios. Zaslav, chief executive officer of the merged company, calculated he could get a hefty premium for the streaming and studio businesses once they were separated from the debt-laden cable networks, people familiar with the deal said.

Then, in the fall, Paramount made three unsolicited offers for the entire company. Absorbing it would give Paramount the combined resources of two major studios – Paramount and Warner Bros – and two major streaming services – Paramount+ and Warner’s HBO Max.

Warner Bros. officially put itself up for sale in October.

Netflix would buy just Warner Bros.’ Hollywood studios and streaming business; its cable TV networks, including CNN, TNT and the Discovery Channel, would be split off in advance of the merger. Netflix is offering $27.75 in cash plus stock.

Paramount is appealing directly to Warner Bros. shareholders with an offering of $30 a share for the whole of the company. The Warner Bros. board advised shareholders to reject the bid, which expires on Jan. 8.

If Warner Bros. accepts an offer other than Netflix’s, it would be required to pay Netflix $2.8 billion, according to their agreement. That high breakup fee would be an additional cost for Paramount to consider as it continues to pursues the company.

Netflix agreed to pay Warner Bros. a $5.8 billion breakup fee if their deal isn’t approved.

Any sale would face a year or more of scrutiny by regulators in multiple jurisdictions, including the US Justice Department and the European Union, before it could close. The Netflix-Warner Bros. agreement has attracted criticism from both Republican and Democratic politicians in the US on the grounds that it would create a behemoth with significant control over the streaming market. The transaction would merge two of the world’s largest streaming services and two of the biggest makers of films and TV shows.

US President Donald Trump said that the “big market share” of the combined entities “could be a problem.” Trump said he would be personally involved in the transaction’s review. The president has longstanding ties to Oracle Corp. co-founder Larry Ellison, whose son David is Paramount’s CEO.

Paramount has argued that its proposed merger is more likely to be approved because it doesn’t have as many streaming customers as Netflix. But it would still face scrutiny from antitrust regulators concerned about market consolidation. US Senator Elizabeth Warren has called Paramount’s offer a “five-alarm antitrust fire,” though she also opposes the Netflix bid, labeling it an “anti-monopoly nightmare.” In a video, she warned that either deal could reduce consumers’ choices and drive up prices.

Movie theater owners and fans have raised concerns about a Netflix-Warner Bros. merger. In the past, Netflix put just a few films in theaters for limited runs, usually to qualify for industry awards such as the Oscars. It considers viewers at home its primary audience. Cinema United, the trade association for theater owners, called the Netflix deal “an unprecedented threat to the global exhibition business.”

Netflix is pledging to maintain Warner Bros.’ current operations and “build on its strengths, including theatrical releases for films.” On a Dec. 5 conference call with investors, Netflix co-CEO Ted Sarandos said the company will release about 30 films in theaters this year. His chief gripe with the standard industry release strategy is the time it takes films to move from cinemas to streaming.

“I wouldn’t look at this as a change in approach for Netflix movies or for Warner movies,” he said. He added that film releases “will evolve to be much more consumer friendly to be able to meet the audience where they are quicker.”

Hollywood unions have raised concerns that either deal would result in job losses in an industry that has already seen significant layoffs in recent years.

Netflix is targeting $2 billion to $3 billion in cost savings and other synergies in the first few years after the transaction. Most of that would come from reductions in general and administrative expenses, specifically support functions of the businesses where there is overlap, according to Netflix co-CEO Greg Peters.

In its letter to shareholders, the Warner Bros. board said that Paramount is targeting a total cost savings of $9 billion from its earlier merger with Skydance and the proposed acquisition of Warner Bros., which the board argued would “make Hollywood weaker, not stronger.”

While not specifically saying so, Netflix executives suggested that they would continue to operate HBO Max as a separate service, much the way Walt Disney Co. offers both Disney+ and Hulu. Services are typically bundled together at discounted prices.

Peters told analysts that there is a high overlap between Netflix and HBO Max subscribers, who he said generate a significant amount of revenue. He said that Netflix could offer different packages and pricing tiers, and sell HBO content more aggressively globally.

Warner Bros. said in a Dec. 17 filing that Paramount was the only bidder to offer Zaslav, a veteran media executive, an ongoing role with the company. Paramount offered Zaslav a co-chairman and CEO position in a merged company with a compensation package worth “several hundred millions dollars,” according to the filing. Zaslav refused to discuss the proposals with Paramount.

Warner Bros. is continuing plans to spin off its cable-TV networks — including CNN, TNT and HGTV — into a new company, Discovery Global, that will be led by Warner Chief Financial Officer Gunnar Wiedenfels. The spinoff is expected in the third quarter of 2026.