Lea en español

A joint venture between Chilean metal giant Codelco and lithium supplier SQM aims to become the world’s largest producer of the battery metal, banking on low-cost, low-impact output to tap growing demand.

Known as NovaAndino Litio, the public-private partnership plans to submit a proposal to regulators next year to raise output at SQM’s Salar de Atacama lithium mining operation, Codelco Chairman Maximo Pacheco said while speaking in Santiago Monday. Pacheco, who will also chair the venture’s board, declined to provide production targets.

The deal marks Codelco’s entry into lithium production and gives the state copper producer majority ownership of SQM’s Chilean lithium business in exchange for extending operations for another three decades. The companies aim to deploy new direct-extraction technologies to lift output at what is already the world’s largest lithium brine complex, while reducing environmental impacts.

“We are witnessing a partnership between Chile’s largest companies — one private and one public — to create the world’s largest lithium producer and to restore Chile as the No. 1 lithium supplier on the planet,” Pacheco said.

The SQM-Codelco venture is a cornerstone of outgoing President Gabriel Boric’s push to expand state control over strategic lithium assets while boosting supply to support the global shift away from fossil fuels. Chile is seeking to regain market share ceded in recent years to Australia and Argentina.

NovaAndino is preparing to expand current production of about 230,000 metric tons a year just as the global lithium market begins to emerge from a prolonged glut. Demand prospects remain strong for electric vehicles and large-scale battery storage, though prices are still well below a 2022 peak and could face pressure from new supply.

Read More: Lithium Recovery Sends SQM Earnings to Highest in Two Years

Codelco is set to own 50% of the venture plus one share after 2030, while SQM will retain operational control until then.

At least one hurdle remains. China’s Tianqi Lithium Corp., a key SQM shareholder, is making a final attempt to block or suspend aspects of the partnership via Chile’s Supreme Court. Tianqi has been arguing that a deal should have gone to a shareholder vote.

China’s antitrust regulator granted conditional approval for the partnership last month, requiring the companies to honor existing contracts and continue supplying Chinese customers on a “fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory” basis.

Albemarle Corp., the only other producer in Chile, has historically been the world’s largest lithium supplier. Diversified miner Rio Tinto Group has also become a major player in recent years while China’s Ganfeng Lithium Group and Tianqi have built up significant global capacity.