International investors who poured billions of dollars into China real estate are increasingly looking to sell their properties at steep losses, threatening more pain for a sector that has weighed heavily on Asia’s largest economy.

Since late 2024, investment managers including BlackRock Inc. and Carlyle Group have offloaded commercial buildings in the country that sold for far less than what they originally paid, causing banks that financed the assets to lose money as well. More global institutions are looking to divest their Chinese properties, said dealmakers and bankers who asked not to be identified discussing private information. HSBC Holdings Plc, Standard Chartered Plc and other lenders have also warned of higher defaults on their China real estate loans.

Foreign property buyers invested close to $140 billion into office towers, warehouses, shopping malls and data centers in China in the last 15 years, according to data compiled by MSCI Real Capital Analytics. Investors thought they would profit from a long-lasting surge in demand from businesses looking for space, but that turned out to be a miscalculation. An unprecedented supply glut is causing rents to fall and values of many properties to tumble, in some cases to below prices seen a decade ago.

Distressed sales of China commercial real estate assets totaled 114 billion yuan ($16 billion) over 2023 and 2024, and made up a record 22% of total transactions last year, according to a reportBloomberg Terminal by Bloomberg Intelligence. A distressed sale occurs when there is a loan default or when a seller loses control of an asset.

The problem now is that the longer property owners wait to sell out, the bigger their losses are likely to become. Capital values, or the estimated market values, of Beijing and Shanghai offices — which make up a large chunk of foreigners’ real estate purchases — have plunged at least 40% from 2019, according to investors and bankers actively involved in deals.

Office vacancies in major Chinese metropolitan cities are now among the world’s highest, ranging from 20% to more than 40%. China’s deflationary environment and higher US tariffs are weighing on the economy, and real estate consultancies and economists expect it to take years for the excess supply of commercial buildings to be absorbed, before any rebound can take hold.

“Foreign investors are stuck with their investment properties in China,” said Patrick Wong, a senior analyst covering Asia Pacific real estate at Bloomberg Intelligence. He said that in order to exit, their best bet is to find local buyers — such as cash-rich Chinese state-owned enterprises — for the assets, “but even SOEs are waiting for signs of improvement in the property market.”

Capitalization rates, an investing metric that measures expected returns from properties based on their market value and current income, are climbing in China for offices and logistics properties, showing the risk for investors is increasing.

Many foreign investors had bought warehouses and other storage facilities in the country in anticipation of sustained growth in e-commerce and demand from food producers and manufacturers. That industry is now also grappling with too much space.

Blackstone Inc., one of the biggest foreign owners of Chinese logistics parks, earlier this year offloaded three logistics parks in Southern China to a domestic insurance giant for about 2.7 billion yuan.

The New York-based asset manager’s Dragoncor unit has more than 40 logistics parks across 18 Chinese cities with gross floor area of over 5 million square meters, according to its website. Blackstone also owns rental housing, office buildings and a shopping mall in China. The recent logistics sale was profitable for the firm, a person familiar with the matter said, declining to be identified because the sale price and deal terms were not public.

To keep warehouses and other logistics facilities from emptying out, some landlords have been renewing or signing new leases at rates that are roughly 25% below the rents that tenants previously paid, according to CapitaLand China Trust, a Singapore-listed real estate investment trust that also owns shopping malls and business parks in China.

Read more: A $100 Billion Bet on China’s Economy Sours as Warehouses Empty

Even global distressed investing specialists are having a hard time recouping money in China.

Oaktree Capital Management LP, which is known for extracting profits from the debt of troubled companies, in late 2021 seized a tourist resort and partially-built residential project from China Evergrande Group. The property giant defaulted on a one-year bridge loan of around $400 million from the Los Angeles-based asset manager, according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified sharing non-public information.

Called Evergrande Venice on the Sea, the sprawling coastal development in Qidong in China’s eastern Jiangsu province has water channels resembling the Italian city it was named after. Spanning nearly 1,500 acres (607 hectares), it was envisioned as a resort town with a luxury Venetian-style hotel, a large conference center resembling the US Capitol building, high-rise apartments, children’s amusement park and sports and recreation facilities — all within a two-hour drive from Shanghai.

The project has been in the works for around a decade with some 30 billion yuan ($4.2 billion) invested, according to a local government website. Back in 2016, Evergrande sold thousands of residential units and promised to deliver them in a few years.

After Oaktree took control of the property, it restarted construction that Evergrande had left idle, and worked with the local government to deliver hundreds of homes the developer earlier presold. The firm established a post-investment management team with around 10 individuals, said the person familiar with the matter.

Oaktree is also sitting on two largely vacant residential land plots. The money manager is now operating the resort and trying to manage the project in the hopes of selling it in the future to recover its loan, the person said.

During visits in mid-July and early September, the beachfront Evergrande Venice Resort was open, while the smaller Sea Castle Hotel nearby was closed. Several resort workers said the latter opens only when there are enough visitors, and a sign outside it said it was closed for internal upgrades.

On a physical billboard showcasing the Venice project’s housing rent and sales platform, a 45-square-meter (484 square feet) flat was listed at 4,000 yuan per square meter. That compares with a peak price of 9,000 to 10,000 yuan per square meter in 2019. “The lowest price in the neighborhood!” the advertisement said. Despite that, sales of completed homes in the area have been slow, according to property agencies nearby.

In Shanghai, a fund Carlyle manages for South Korea’s National Pension Service sold a 31-story office tower in late 2024 for a little more than half the 1.46 billion yuan price it paid around a decade ago. The building called “The Crest” had been on the market for more than a year.

When Carlyle bought the building in 2015, commercial rents were on the rise. The office vacancy rate in Shanghai was 4.6% that year, according to Knight Frank Research.

The Washington-based asset manager spruced up the building by upgrading its lobby, adding air purifiers and Tesla electric car chargers, which were rare in China at the time. The building was part of a complex that included a five-star hotel and two high-end residential towers, a short walk from the city’s Jing’an Temple Central Business District. After the renovation, Carlyle raised the office building’s rents to about 9 yuan per square meter from 6 to 8 yuan per square meter previously.

In all, the firm made dozens of commercial real estate investments in China, delivering annualized returns of between 15% and 18% before fees, Bloomberg News reported in 2018. Carlyle spun out its China real estate business that year to refocus its business around growth and private equity investments.

In the decade through 2020, China’s nationwide office starts were more than triple that of the previous decade, according to Bloomberg calculations based on official data.

Foreign investors’ purchases of Chinese real estate reached a record high of close to $20 billion in 2019, according to MSCI Real Capital Analytics data. The coronavirus pandemic began shortly after. Strict restrictions muzzled much of China in the ensuing three years, causing offices to empty out and companies to reassess their need for physical space.

When the Crest was put up for sale in 2023, it was 77% occupied, according to a property agent’s brochure. A local investor ended up paying 826 million yuan for it — about 57% of its 2015 price, according to people familiar with the transaction. The purchase price was also less than the face value of a 1 billion yuan loan backing the property, they said.

The building was the last asset in the Carlyle-managed fund, which earlier profited from its other property sales, according to a person familiar with the matter.

Last year, China’s average nationwide office vacancy rate reached nearly 25%, largely driven by soaring supply, according to real estate firm CBRE. It has remained elevated this year.

Rents dropped 6.9% in 2024 in the sharpest annual decline in history, as a price war among landlords took hold. In Shanghai, new office supply likely won’t decrease until 2028, CBRE estimated.

About a 20-minute drive from The Crest sits Waterfront Place, a Shanghai office complex with 10 buildings. In late 2024, a BlackRock fund forfeited two of them to Standard Chartered after missing a payment on a loan backed by the properties.

The world’s largest money manager had earlier tried to sell the two buildings at a 30% discount to their 1.2 billion yuan purchase price in 2018. Walking away from them meant the BlackRock fund’s entire equity investment in the properties, which was around 420 million yuan, was wiped out.

A consortium led by the British bank subsequently sold the towers in March for about 680 million yuan. That implies the lenders also lost a portion of their 780 million yuan syndicated loan.

Outside the towers, a board displaying tenants’ names was mostly populated with leasing contacts when Bloomberg News visited in September. At least three of the taller building’s 18 floors were empty during a visit in June.

The difficult market conditions mean there could be more distressed sales, said Rebecca Tang, a Fitch Ratings director who covers the China property sector. She said the risk is that they could affect the values of similar commercial real estate assets, and slumping valuations could have implications for healthier properties as well.

Global institutions “are taking a view that the market isn’t likely to recover anytime soon,” said Nicholas Wilson, who runs Oxford Economics’ real estate economics service for Asia. He expects office rents in China to keep declining through next year, and estimates the nominal value of buildings will be lower in 2030 than in 2020. That would reflect a “lost decade” for the country’s commercial real estate sector, he said.