US stocks slid as traders pared bets on tech megacaps before the end of the year. Volatility hit precious metals as silver retreated after touching a record high.

The S&P 500 fell 0.4%, with shares of Tesla Inc., Nvidia Corp. and Meta Platforms among the decliners. The Nasdaq 100 was off 0.5%. In bonds, the yield on 10-year Treasuries slipped one basis point to 4.11%.

The weakness in equities “is a reversal from last week when tech stocks led on the way up,” said Joe Mazzola, head trading & derivatives strategist at Charles Schwab. However, it “doesn’t appear connected to any single fundamental factor.”

The S&P 500 is up some 17% year-to-date, defying expectations for a tariff-fueled selloff even as it underperformed many global peers.

“The dollar and the S&P 500 were expected to shine in 2025, yet the reality turned out a little different as turmoil and backtracking on tariff announcements in April briefly sank confidence in American policy. The US benchmark has had a good year, but it hasn’t convincingly beaten peers, even in tech.”

— Sebastian Boyd, Macro Strategist, Markets Live. For the full analysis, click hereBloomberg Terminal.

An optimistic consensus is taking hold that the rally in stocks will continue rallying in 2026 after three straight years of gains. Despite a raft of risks spanning a potential bust in the artificial-intelligence advance to unanticipated policy shocks, sell-side strategists are forecasting another 9% average gain in the S&P 500 next year.

“As attention shifts to the year ahead, the outlook for U.S. economic growth appears bright,” wrote Jason Pride, chief of investment strategy and research and Michael Reynolds, vice president of investment strategy at Glenmede. “The combined effects of tariff policy, fiscal stimulus, shifts in the labor market, AI-related productivity, and the potential for deregulation point to above trend prospects in 2026.”

Silver, meanwhile, tumbled 9% after smashing through $80 an ounce in a rally powered by speculative trades and fears of a supply shortage. Gold was down more than 4%.

Precious metals have emerged as a hot corner of financial markets in recent months, boosted by elevated central-bank purchases and inflows to exchange-traded funds. Lower borrowing costs are also acting as a tailwind for non-yielding commodities, while frictions between the US and Venezuela have added to precious metals’ safe-haven appeal.

The initial momentum for metals on Monday came after a weekend comment by Elon Musk highlighted the growing bullishness around them. Musk replied to a tweet on Chinese export restrictions by saying on X: “This is not good. Silver is needed in many industrial processes.”

Precious metals “had become quite overbought on a short-term basis, so the fact that they’re seeing some outsized declines this morning is not the end of the world at all,” according to Matt Maley, chief market strategist at Miller Tabak + Co. “We believe that any weakness in these names over the next week or two should create another good buying opportunity.”

Elsewhere, Bitcoin topped $90,000 before erasing its gain, while a gauge of the dollar was little changed.

Oil rose as the US-led talks on Ukraine failed to yield a breakthrough and as China vowed to support economic growth next year. Brent crude is still on track for a fifth monthly drop in December, which would be the longest losing streak in more than two years.

This story was produced with the assistance of Bloomberg Automation.